So we get the firebase admin at the Firebase Functions package available here in this function's folder
for our JavaScript code to interact with.
So this is now really all just a JavaScript world has nothing to do with Flutter because this function's
code will later run on one of firebases servers so that in the end we can run some code there when something
changes in the database, for example.
So how could this functional look like if we dive into the official firebase stocks, which is always
a great idea for that?
So if you search for firebase cloud functions.
You find, of course, plenty of documentation and what you will find here under trigger background
functions is that you can use cloud fire stored triggers so that you can basically run a function as
a response to some event that happened in your cloud forest or database.
And as you can see, there are other triggers as well.
You could also run a function because some file was uploaded, for example, with cloud storage triggers.
But I care about a function that I want to run because something changed in the database.
And here we got four triggers on create an update on the left and on right on right runs whenever on
create an update or delete is triggered.
Well, and Diovan triggers only run for the respective operation since I want to run some code whenever
a new message is stored.
So whenever a new message was sent, I'm interested in the on create trigger and you can see how it
works in the examples below.
In the end, we need to import this firebase functions package into our code file with this line of
code.
This is already happening here at the very top and there after.
We need to export such a function here, which is set up with functions start fires store.
Then that document and then a path to the document to which you want to listen.
So where you want to listen to the creative end and then on right.
Or in our case, on create.
So I will copy this code here and moved it here into my function code.
Like this and replace this with on create, and here the path is a different one, I'm interested in
the Chett collection, but there in any message now you can name this however you want, but you need
to curly braces to signal to Firebase that this is a placeholder that you don't know the exact document
ID, but that instead you care about any document in there.
So whenever a new document is added, no matter which idea it has, this uncreate function should run.
That is what we're writing here.
And that means that, well, whenever something new is added in our chat collection, whenever a new
document is added here, so whenever a new message is added, our function will run.
So maybe to see how that works, let's just cancel log, which is the JavaScript equivalent to print
in flutter, let's just Kansa log the data we're getting upon this event and the data we are getting.
Is described down there, you can get the data after the operation, complete it so often, the creation
of the document finished with change after data, as you can learn here.
And this is all just JavaScript code, in case you're wondering what it is.
As you can see, it's not too far away from flutter, but for example, CONSED works differently.
So don't be confused about that.
It's all JavaScript code here.
So I'm interested in the data after the riot finished, so I will copy, just change that after that
data function call here.
And lock the result here with console lock, so I have passed a value that is returned by calling data
to console lock so that we can output it here.
So now that we've finished writing this function, we have to deploy it, which means we have to upload
it to firebase servers because it's not going to run on our local machine.
It's going to run on firebase servers.
So here in your project where you previously ran, Firebase in it, now run Firebase deploy, and this
will take your function and upload it and initialize it to an on firebase servers.
So you can see this process here, it can take a couple of seconds.
And it will let you know once it's finished, now, what you actually see is that I'm getting an error
here, a 403 unknown error now for free.
Looks like I was denied access.
So you can try running Firebase Log in if you're getting this.
And thereafter, I reran Firebase deploy and now it looks better, looks like it's being uploaded.
And with the deploy complete message, it guess what completed, so now our function is running on firebase
servers and now whenever we have a new message in the database, the function should trigger there now
to monitor our function and its output in our firebase web console.
We can go back to functions.
And reload this page.
And you should see your function here, if you don't see it immediately, wait a few minutes and then
try reloading.
So that would be your function.
And you can also view the logs of this function to see what's going on there.
Now, as always, by the way, when you're working with FIREBASE features, check their pricing.
For example, here in the case of cloud functions, you got a certain free tier, a certain free usage
amount, and if you exceed that, you would be charged.
So make sure you check that.
So here we see some logs from this functional.
And now let's see if something changes there.
If I send a new message, does this work?
If I send this message, it shows up here, of course, and it should show up in our database there.
If we have a look at that chart collection, we should see this does this work message here.
And what about our function now, the locks can always take some time until they update, so you might
want to reload, wait a bit and come back at a later point of time, but eventually you should see something
here.
And I actually do see something I see an error cannot read property data of undefined, so our function
executed, but something went wrong there.
We were not able to retrieve some data here.
So it looks like calling data on changed after did not work.
Now, this was simply a little mistake from my side in the uncreate case, we actually don't have to
do this change after a thing.
Instead, we get a snapshot of the data anyways so we can just call snapshot.
Top data, as you can see here, I was in the on update case where you, of course, have two states
before and after the update, but if you create something, you just have to snapshot.
So I decided to leave doesn't because this is easy to overlook.
And therefore, now if we access a snapshot here, we should be able to really get the data we're interested
in.
So just to double check this, let's redeploy this.
Whenever you make a change locally, you have to redeploy.
So let's redeploy this and let's now validate this again.
So let's wait for the redeployment to finish.
And now that it finished, let me send another message.
Like that.
And let's then go back to our loks here and again, you might want to reload here, wait a little bit,
reload again until the new log shows up here and eventually you should get your data.
Now, we still have a warning here or an error.
We'll take care about this later.
But what we see here is this piece of data.
So we see that's the data we got, and that's exactly the data that was stored in a database.
So we get our username here, we get the text that is pretty cool.
And that's the data which I now want to send as part of my notification.
Now, one extra note.
We also see that we got an error, that the functio returned undefined and that it should return a value
or a promise.
Instead, a promise is essentially the same as a future in dart.
So in JavaScript, that's called a promise and our function does never.
Now, that's not a huge problem.
We can simply return anything here at the moment.
This will soon change anyways, because now, of course, I don't want to return anything instead.
Now I want to send my message.
And for this we'll use that firebase amnestic, which we also have.